>> Marcy Sutton: So, I'm really excited,
we're gonna talk about testing.
And this is something that I've
really grown to see value in
as a developer in my career.
Once upon a time I was working at an
agency, I'm working on a widget over here,
and this one page that we were supposed to
update, yeah, I forgot it was in use on
another page and didn't tell our
QA team to go test that page.
So, yeah, guess who shipped
broken things to production?
And it really wasn't the QA person's
fault, they weren't looking for
it on another page,
it was pretty much my fault.
So, I think testing is a way to prevent
those failures, those failed builds,
and staying late on a Friday at the office
trying to fix your mess you made cuz you
deployed on a Friday, and
you don't have continuous deployment.
So testing is just so
powerful to get that peace of mind,
to bake that quality into your software.
And for accessibility there's so
much potential,
because you can bake that stuff in for
accessible patterns, these
are supposed to work with the keyboard,
and if you break it, you break the build.
So there's a lot of value in having
automated testing in general.
And there's some great Frontend Masters
courses just on testing, but
we're gonna look at it from
an accessibility lens.
And we'll talk about Linting, unit tests,
integration and end-to-end test.
Accessibility test API's, and
how they kind of factor into all of those.
We'll touch briefly on continuous
integration, and then some manual and
user testing,
because we can only automate so much.
It's really amazing, and we can catch
some low hanging fruit, and automate it,
and fail things from getting deployed.
But that only goes so far, and we can test
manually, like we did with debugging,
and to start the day.
And then user testing is
a huge part of that as well.
There's no substitute for
getting your product, or site, or app,
in front of a user with
a disability early,
because they might tell you something
that's a huge game changer.
You're like, wow,
I wish I would have known that earlier,
[LAUGH] well,you can do user testing.
So Linting, this is a big area for
developers,
because when we're coding, we hit save on
a file, or even just, typing in a file.
I mean, we were using Linting to look at
that spread operator in the last section
to see what is valid, and it can give
us some of that feedback of like,
I typed this wrong, there's an error here.
And I can figure that out
before I hit save and
have to go over to the browser and
figure that out.
So Linting has a role in
helping us catch errors early.
And for accessibility we can use the
ESLint-plugin for JSX and accessibility.
It is limited to sites that use ESLint and
JSX, but
a lot of sites do these days,
a lot of React applications use this.
Gatsby ships with an ESLint config
that comes with that installed.
You might need to reconfigure
some of the rules.
If you look in the Gatsby develop, when
I'm running that on the server locally,
it's complaining about things that I
actually need to go report to them, but
sometimes I don't agree with the findings.
And so, what I can do about
that is reconfigure it.
And I have some resource here from
the Gatsby site, I wrote about how to
reconfigure ESLint, it would apply to
other sites too, not just Gatsby sites.
Linting is great in the JSX or HTML space.
Most times,
you're not loading CSS at that time, so
you maybe aren't seeing that, or
even having other components,
you might not be aware that
the rendered state of it is maybe fine.
Maybe your complaining about something and
it's not a big deal, or
it's missing something
that is a bigger deal.
So, we can use Linting for some low
hanging fruit, but rendering does make
a difference, and so, you kinda just
have to take that with a grain of salt.
So some accessibility units.
So Linting, that's a tool
that you can just install, so
I'm not gonna go into it, I'd rather spend
the time working on automated tests.
So I'm gonna talk to you kind of
about the line between unit test and
integration test, and
kind of when would you write what.
And, some of that's very subjective,
where that line for integration and
end-to-ent test is, but let's look
at accessible units in unit test.
These are mostly component level concerns,
like the API for a component,
you pass in a prop,
it puts that label into some button buried
in the tree of that component somewhere.
That contract for that component
should have some unit tests.
So, in isolation,
when we have that component,
it has some tests that, it doesn't have
any outside inputs, it's not going and
hitting the network, it's not
depending on some other component.
We either need to stub things
that it does depend on,
so that the test can still be isolated.
That's probably the best approach,
I would say, is just try and
limit all those dependencies, and
then you can just pass in inputs.
So the inputs are what
you pass into a test,
the variables that change its outcome.
And then we're usually
asserting the outcome,
the state that it ends up being when
we've passed in those specific inputs.
An example would be,
in our drop down widget when I
passed in the activator text.
In a test I could pass in
any random string, and
that's what we'll do in a test.
And then I can assert that
that string matches, so
it's very specific to the test.
It is pretty robust, because
the test data is something I define,
and it's not depending on
a real implementation.
These unit tests are often headless,
which means that they're not
technically rendered in a browser.
So using things like JS DOM, that's
kind of an in memory representation of
a web page, that means you
might have limited DOM APIs.
It means that sometimes styles,
a certain focus styles might
be a little funky because you aren't
rendering it like a normal page would, but
it does enable fast changing of state.
I can change the state of a component,
make sure that focus is going into it
correctly, that it's getting labeled
correctly, things like that.
So for accessibility unit tests, it's
really about component-specific behavior.
You could test interaction and
focus APIs, so, like the drop down,
making sure focus is send
to the right elements.
Things like text alternatives, if you
have a custom icon button component, or
a custom forum widget that's styled,
and you wanna make sure that
the props you're passing in
are making it to the right elements.
You wanna toggle ARIA states, that might
be a good thing to test for state.
Cuz really what we're concerned
about is the outcome.
So not the implementation, so
not the internal state, but the component
that gets output on the other end.
Does it have ARIA selected when it should?
Does it have ARIA disabled when it should?
And that sort of thing.
And I have an article that I wrote linked
here called Writing Automated tests for
Accessibility that goes much
deeper into a lot of these
kind of the line between
different styles and tests.